---
title: DataBase (MariaDB/MySQL)
category: Et Cetera
order: 2
---

### DataBase?

**DataBase**: Storage of Data

**DBMS** : Software manage/operate DataBase

**Relational Database (a.k.a RDBMS)** : 

database that organizes data into `tables` with `rows` and `columns`, and <u>establishes relationships between tables based on common fields, called keys</u>. 

### Setting MariaDB (Window/Mac/Linux)

**[Window]**

**1.** Download it a.zip file over(https://mariadb.org/download/?t=mariadb&p=mariadb&r=11.1.0 ) and decompress it.

**2.** Open CMD w Admin (shift + CMD click) 

**Service Registration**
```s
> cd ./path where the .zip is decompressed/
> cd mariadb-10.6.7/bin
> mariadb-install-db.exe -S 'MariaDB' -p 'password'
```
**Service Start/Stop**
```s
> sc start MariaDB
> sc stop MariaDB
```

**Local Access**
```s
> mysql -u root -p 
```

****
```s
> select version();
> show databases;
> use 'dbname';
> show tables;
> select 'Host', 'User', 'Password' from 'tableName';
>

```

### Features of DataBase

· Real Time Accessibility :  
Databases provide immediate and constant access to data, allowing users to retrieve and modify data quickly and efficiently.

· Continuous Change:
Databases are designed to handle continuous changes to the data they store, such as updates, insertions, and deletions.

· Concurrent Sharing:
Databases allow multiple users or applications to access and manipulate data simultaneously, without interfering with each other.

· Reference By Content:
Databases use a unique identifier, such as a primary key, to reference data. This ensures that data is accessed accurately and consistently, regardless of its physical location within the database.

· Data Independence:
Database systems provide a layer of abstraction between the physical storage of data and the applications that use it, allowing for flexibility and easier maintenance. This means that changes to the database structure or organization can be made without affecting the applications that use it.


### Create a DataBase and User

**DataBase Creation**
~~~
CREATE DATABASE database_name;
~~~
**DataBase Selection**
~~~
CREATE USER 'username'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
~~~
**Grant Of Authority**
~~~
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'username'@'localhost';
~~~
**Save Changes**
~~~
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
~~~
<br>


### C R U D

CRUD stands for Create, Read, Update, and Delete, which are the fundamental data processing functions that most computer software has. It is also used as a term referring to the functionalities that a user interface should have, such as referencing, searching, and updating information.

Today, we learned how to create a database, add and grant permissions to users, and process CRUD operations using MariaDB.

**Table Creation**
~~~
CREATE TABLE table_name (
  column1 datatype,
  column2 datatype,
  column3 datatype,
  ...
);
~~~

**Data Insertion**
~~~
INSERT INTO table_name (column1, column2, column3, ...)
VALUES (value1, value2, value3, ...);
~~~

**Data Inquiry**
~~~
SELECT column1, column2, ...
FROM table_name
WHERE condition;
~~~

**Data Update**
~~~
UPDATE table_name
SET column1 = value1, column2 = value2, ...
WHERE condition;
~~~

**Data Deletion**
~~~
DELETE FROM table_name
WHERE condition;
~~~