---
title: Shell Script
category: Et Cetera
order: 5
---

### Shell Script?

A shell script is a program written in a scripting language that can be executed by a Unix/Linux shell. It consists of a sequence of commands, and can be used to automate tasks, manipulate files, perform system administration tasks, and more. Shell scripts are commonly used in system administration, software deployment, and other tasks that require automating a series of commands in a Unix/Linux environment.

- a shell script is typically saved as a file and then executed.
- The file needs to have the proper permissions set in order to be executable.
- It's common to use the .sh file extension for shell scripts, but it's not strictly necessary.
- The first line starts with `#!/bin/bash`


### print hello bash

```s
hyunsoojo@HYUNSOOui-MacBook-Pro:~$vi hello.sh
# echo(shell method) "Hello bash!" -> :wq! 

hyunsoojo@HYUNSOOui-MacBook-Pro:~$ls -al
# -rw-r--r--    1 hyunsoojo  staff      33  5  3 19:03 hello.sh

hyunsoojo@HYUNSOOui-MacBook-Pro:~$chmod 764 hello.sh
hyunsoojo@HYUNSOOui-MacBook-Pro:~$ls -al
# -rwxrw-r--    1 hyunsoojo  staff      33  5  3 19:03 hello.sh

hyunsoojo@HYUNSOOui-MacBook-Pro:~$ ./hello.sh
# Hello bash!    <- will be printed
```

### Variable declaration

variable declaration ->`name = "whatever"`<br>
use variable -> `$name`

```
#!/bin/bash

mysql_id='root'
mysql_directory='/ect/mysql'

echo $mysql_id      
echo $mysql_directory
```

### Pre-declared Variables

`$0`: This variable contains the name of the shell script or the current shell.

`$1-$9`: These variables contain the first 9 arguments passed to the script. $1 contains the first argument, $2 the second, and so on.

`$*`: This variable contains all the arguments passed to the script as a single string. Each argument is separated by the first character in the `$IFS` (Internal Field Separator) variable.

`$#`: This variable contains the number of arguments passed to the script.

`$?`: This variable contains the exit status of the last executed command. A value of 0 indicates success, and a non-zero value indicates an error or failure.


### Array

- declaration -> `variablename=(data1 data2 data3)`
- use ->  `${variablename[index]}`
- all ->  `${variablename[*]}` or `${variablename[@]}` 
- length -> `${#variablename[@]}`

```
#!/bin/bash

daemons =("httpd" "mysqld" "vsftpd")
acho ${daemons[*]}
```

output will be -> `httpd mysqld vsftpd`


